Scripts to copy updated authoritative artifacts from the tdwg/bdq/ tree into the tdwg/bdq/_review directory to run build scripts and for the submission of the standard for review.

WARNING: All files listed in the copy_files.sh script MUST NOT be edited in their destination files in the _review directory.  Current authoritative and maintained copies live elsewhere.  See the file lists below.

**copy_files.sh**  Copies authoritative files from outside the _review tree into their target locations in the _review tree.

**do_build.sh** Executes the python scripts in `_build_review/` to build artifacts from the templates, configuration files, and vocabulary documents in the `_build_review/` tree.

Third party Python libraries required by the scripts:
```
pandas
pyyaml
rdflib
```

# Structure of source and target directories for the build.

## Source files for the bdqtest vocabulary

** CORE tests are no longer maintained from the markdown tables in the github issues.** 

Current master files for the tests are: tg2/core/TG2_tests.csv and  tg2/core/TG2_multirecord_measure_tests.csv 

TODO: Make tg2/_review/vocabulary/bdqcore_term_versions.csv the master copy.

## Convenience shell scripts 

This directory \_make_review.

<pre>
_make_review
├── copy_files.sh  Copies files from the source tree to the target tree. **Editable.**
├── do_build.sh  Runs the build scripts in the _build_review directory. **Editable.**
└── README.md  This file. **Editable.**
</pre>

## The Source directory for the build: \_build_review

<pre>
├── _build_review Build scripts and templates to assemble pages.
│   ├── See build/README.md for details
</pre>

## The Target directory for the build: \_review

Most of these files are generated by the build scripts in the _build_review directory.  The files in this directory are not intended to be edited directly, except for the README.md and index.md files and the vocabulary term version files in the vocabulary directory.

Summary of files in the tg2/\_review directory: 

<pre>
_review/
├── README.md  Introduction for public review of the draft **Editable.**
├── index.md  Landing page for the standard. **Editable.** (the references are embedded in this file)
├── workflow_single_iteration.svg  image file used in index.md, **Editable.**
├── workflow_two_iterations.svg image file used in index.md, **Editable.**
├── dist  Generated CSV distribution files for building other artifacts.
│   ├── bdq.xml  Generated RDF for bdq vocabulary (built with draft_build-termlist.py).
│   ├── bdqtest.json  JSON serialization of the RDF representation of test descriptions, built by kurator-ffdq from bdq/tg2/core/TG2_tests.csv as bdq/tg2/core/TG2_tests.ttl.
│   ├── bdqtest.ttl  Turtle serialization of the RDF representation of test descriptions, built by kurator-ffdq from bdq/tg2/core/TG2_tests.csv as bdq/tg2/core/TG2_tests.ttl.
│   ├── bdqtest.xml  RDF/XML serialization of the RDF representation of test descriptions, built by kurator-ffdq from bdq/tg2/core/TG2_tests.csv as bdq/tg2/core/TG2_tests.xml.
│   ├── bdqtest_singlerecord_tests_current.csv  CSV list of current bdqtest SingleRecord tests, for the convenience of implementers.  Produced by _make_review/copy_files.sh
│   ├── bdqtest_multirecord_tests_current.csv  CSV list of current bdqtest MultiRecord tests, for the convenience of implementers.  Produced by _make_review/copy_files.sh
│   ├── bdqtest_tests_vertical.csv  List of test label, prefLabel, and fully qualified name.
│   ├── bdqcrit.xml  Generated RDF for bdqcrit vocabulary (built with draft_build-termlist.py).
│   ├── bdqdim.xml  Generated RDF for bdqdim vocabulary (built with draft_build-termlist.py).
│   └── bdqenh.xml  Generated RDF for bdqenh vocabulary (built with draft_build-termlist.py).
├── docs  Human-readable documentation files built from files in build directory.
│   ├── bdqtest  Landing page for bdqtest, with normative statements.
│   │   └── index.md  Generated file. **Do not edit.**
│   ├── bdqffdq  Landing page for bdqffdq, with normative statements.
│   │   └── index.md  Generated file. **Do not edit.**
│   ├── extension  Build targets for Human readable vocabulary extension documents.
│   │   └── bdqffdq
│   │       └── index.md  Generated vocabulary extension document. **Do not edit.**
│   ├── guide  Descriptive document build targets.
│   │   ├── bdqffdq  The guide to bdqffdq
│   │   │   ├── *.svg and *.png  Files copied here from _build_review. **Do not edit.**
│   │   │   └── index.md  Generated file. **Do not edit.**
│   │   ├── implementers  The implementers guide
│   │   │   ├── index.md  Generated file. **Do not edit.**
│   │   │   ├── TG2_test_validation_data_nonprintingchars.csv **Do not edit.**
│   │   │   └── TG2_test_validation_data.csv **Do not edit.**
│   │   ├─ users  The users guide
│   │   │   └── index.md  Generated file. **Do not edit.**
│   │   └── synthetic The guide to marking synthetic data 
│   │	   └── index.md  Generated file. **Do not edit.**
│   ├── intro  Generated Introduction to the standard.
│   │   ├── index.md  Generated file. **Do not edit.**
│   │   └── *.svg  Files copied here from build. **Do not edit.**
│   ├── list  Build targets for Human readable term list documents. **Do not edit.**
│   │   ├── bdq
│   │   │   └── index.md  Generated bdq term list document. **Do not edit.**
│   │   ├── bdqtest
│   │   │   └── index.md  Generated bdqtest term list document. **Do not edit.**
│   │   ├── bdqcrit
│   │   │   └── index.md  Generated bdqcrit term list document. **Do not edit.**
│   │   ├── bdqdim
│   │   │   └── index.md  Generated bdqdim term list document. **Do not edit.**
│   │   ├── bdqenh
│   │   │   └── index.md  Generated bdqenh term list document. **Do not edit.**
│   │   └── bdqffdq
│   │       └── index.md  Generated bdqffdq term list document. **Do not edit.**
│   ├── supplement
│   │   ├── index.md  Generated file. **Do not edit.**
│   │   └── *.png  Files copied here from build. **Do not edit.**
│   └── terms  Build targets for Quick Reference Guides.
│       └── bdqtest Quick reference guide to the tests
│           ├── bdqtest_qrg_term_descriptions.md  Terms key for index.md. Generated file. **Do not edit.**
│           ├── index.md  Generated file. **Do not edit.**
│           ├── index.html  Generated file. Proof of concept html rendering of the QRG deployed at https://tdwg.github.io/bdq/terms/bdqtest/ **Do not edit.**
│           ├── qrg_index_by_dimension.md  Generated file. **Do not edit.**
│           ├── qrg_index_by_ie_actedupon.md  Generated file. **Do not edit.**
│           ├── qrg_index_by_ie_class.md  Generated file. **Do not edit.**
│           ├── qrg_index_by_usecase.md  Generated file. **Do not edit.**
│           └── qrg_multirecord_index.md  Generated file. **Do not edit.**
└── vocabulary  Master copies of vocabularies as term version files (and an OWL file).
    ├── README.md list, description, and editable state of the vocabulary files
	├── bdq_term_versions.csv  Term version file for `bdq:` supplemental vocabulary. **Editable.**
	├── bdqcrit_term_versions.csv  Term version file for `bdqcrit:` Criterion vocabulary. **Editable.**
	├── bdqdim_term_versions.csv  Term version file for `bdqdim:` Dimension vocabulary. **Editable.**
	├── bdqenh_term_versions.csv  Term version file for `bdqenh:` Enhancement vocabulary. **Editable.**
	├── bdqtest_term_versions.csv  Term version file for `bdqtest:`  Produced by _make_review/copy_files.sh ** Do Not Edit.**
	└── bdqffdq.owl  OWL Ontology for `bdqffdq:` terms. **Edit with Protégé or VERY carefully with a text editor.**
	Note: Current master files for the tests are: tg2/core/TG2_tests.csv and  tg2/core/TG2_multirecord_measure_tests.csv 
</pre>

# Build file for proof of concept html representation of the quick reference guide

tg2/\_build_html/generate_bdq_qrg.py

# Suggestions for a maintenance group tg2/maintenance

<pre>
tg2 
└── maintenance
    └── index.md  Suggestions for maintenance group. **Editable.**
</pre>
